PREREQUISITE PROFICIENCY LEVELS

    Fundamental Awareness:

        Basic level. Person is beginning development of a knowledge and
        understanding of the common, basic techniques and concepts. Focus is on
        learning.

    Novice:

        Limited experience. Proficiency requires the level of experience gained
        in a classroom and/or experimental scenarios or as a trainee on the
        job. Person at this level of proficiency is expected to need help when
        performing this skill.  Person: (1) is focussed on developing through
        experiment in application; (2) understands and can discuss terminology,
        concepts, principles, and issues related to this competency; and (3)
        utilizes the full range of reference and resource materials in this
        competency.

    Intermediate:

        Semi-independent practical application. Proficient person is able to
        successfully complete tasks in this competency as requested. Help from
        an expert may be required from time to time, but the person can usually
        perform the skill independently. Focus is on applying and enhancing
        knowledge or skill. Person: (1) can applied this competency to
        situations occasionally while needing minimal guidance to perform
        successfully; and (2) understands and can discuss the application and
        implications of changes to processes, policies, and procedures in this
        area.

    Advanced:

        Applied theory. Person can perform the actions associated with this
        skill without assistance. Person is recognized within his or her
        immediate organization as "a person to ask" when difficult questions
        arise regarding this skill. Focus is on broad
        organizational/professional issues. Person: (1) consistently provides
        practical/relevant ideas and perspectives on process or practice
        improvements which may easily be implemented; (2) is capable of
        coaching others in the application of this competency by translating
        complex nuances relating to this competency into easy to understand
        terms; (3) can participate in senior level discussions regarding this
        competency; and (4) can assist in the development of reference and
        resource materials in this competency.

    Expert:

        Recognized authority. Person is known as an expert in this area. Person
        can provide guidance, troubleshoot and answer questions related to this
        area of expertise and the field where the skill is used. Focus is
        strategic. Person: (1) has demonstrated consistent excellence in
        applying this competency across multiple projects and/or organizations;
        (2) is considered a/the "go to" person in this area within and/or
        outside his or her organization; (3) has created new applications for
        and/or lead the development of reference and resource materials for
        this competency; and (4) is able to diagram or explain the relevant
        process elements and issues in relation to organizational trends in
        sufficient detail during discussions and presentations, to foster a
        greater understanding among internal and external colleagues and
        constituents.

COMPETENCY

    A statement (assertion) of some expected skill, knowledge, or habit of mind
    (way of think) resulting from the engagement of a learner in an educational
    or training activity.

BENCHMARK

    Some measureable learner action that demonstrates achievement of a
    competency using action verbs (see, for example,
    https://www.enmu.edu/academics/assessment/faculty/manual/verb_list.shtml).

