
   Author Guidelines for Formal Proceedings of DC-2001 Conference

                DC-2001 Local Arrangement Comittee

                 National Institute of Informatics
       2-1-2 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8430, Japan
                     dc2001-local@nii.ac.jp

                            Abstract

  The ABSTRACT should be written in fully-justified text, at the top
of the left-hand column, below the author and affiliation information. 
Use the word "Abstract" as the title, in 12-point Times, boldface
type, centered relative to the column, initially capitalized. The
abstract is to be in 10-point, single-spaced type.  The abstract may
be up to 7.5 cm (approximately 3 inches) long. KEYWORDS are to be
followed by no blank line after the abstract, accompanied with the
hedding "Keywords:" in Times 12-point boldface, initially capitalized. 
Leave two blank lines after the Keywords, then begin the main text.

Keywords: DC-2001, Author Guidelines.


1   Introduction

  Please follow the steps outlined below when submitting your
manuscript to the Proceedings of DC-2001 Conference. This guideline and
manuscript are a modified version of the IEEE proceedings ones[3].


2   Instructions

  Please read the following carefully.


2.1  Language

  All manuscripts must be in English.


2.2  Printing your paper

  Print your properly formatted text on high-quality A4 white printer
paper. Those of you who usually use US Letter paper, bear with us_this
layout is for A4 paper, hence the longer-than-usual pages. Adjust the
top-margin if necessary to avoid text running off the bottom of the
page. Do not exceed 2 to 4 pages for short paper submission or 8 to 10
pages for regular paper submission.


2.3  Margins and page numbering

  All printed material, including text, illustrations, and charts,
must be kept within a print area 16.0 cm (6-3/8 inches) wide by 24.2
cm (9-1/2 inches) high. Do not write or print anything outside the
print area. Number your pages lightly, in pencil, on the upper
right-hand corners of the BACKS of the pages (for example, 1/8, 2/8,
or 1 of 8, 2 of 8, and so forth). Please do not write on the fronts of
the pages, nor on the lower halves of the backs of the pages.


2.4  Formatting your paper

  Body text must be in a two-column format. The total allowable width
of the text area is 16.0 cm (6-5/16 inches) wide by 24.2 cm (9-1/2
inches) high. Columns are to be 7.6 cm (3.0 inches) wide, with a 0.8
cm (5/16 inch) space between them. The main title (on the first page)
should begin 3.5 cm (1-3/8 inches) from the top edge of the page. The
second and following pages should begin 2.5 cm (1.0 inch) from the top
edge. On all pages, the bottom margin should be 3.0 cm (1-3/16 inch)
from the bottom edge of the page.


2.5  Type-style and fonts

  Wherever Times is specified, Times Roman may also be used. If
neither is available on your word processor, please use the font
closest in appearance to Times that you have access to.
  MAIN TITLE. Center the title 3.5 cm (1-3/8 inches) from the top edge
of the first page. The title should be in Times 14-point, boldface
type. Capitalize the first letter of nouns, pronouns, verbs,
adjectives, and adverbs; do not capitalize articles, coordinate
conjunctions, or prepositions (unless the title begins with such a
word). Leave two blank lines after the title.
  AUTHOR NAME(s), AFFILIATION(s), E-MAIL ADDRESS(s) are to be centered
beneath the title and printed in Times 12-point, non-boldface
type. This information is to be followed by two blank lines.
  The ABSTRACT, KEYWORDS and MAIN TEXT are to be in a two-column
format.
  MAIN TEXT. Type main text in 10-point Times, single-spaced. Do NOT
use double-spacing. All paragraphs should be indented 1 pica
(approx. 0.4 cm or 1/6 inch). Make sure your text is fully justified_
that is, flush left and flush right. Please do not place any
additional blank lines between paragraphs.  Figure and table captions
should be 10-point Helvetica boldface type as in

  FIRST-ORDER HEADINGS. (For example, 1. Introduction) should be Times
12-point boldface, initially capitalized, flush left, with one blank
line before, and one blank line after.
  SECOND-ORDER HEADINGS. (For example, 1.1.  Database elements) should
be Times 11- point boldface, initially capitalized, flush left, with
one blank line before, and one after. If you require a third-order
heading (we discourage it), use 10-point Times, boldface, initially
capitalized, flush left, preceded by one blank line, followed by a
period and your text on the same line.


2.6  Footnotes

  Please use footnotes sparingly and place them at the bottom of the
column on the page on which they are referenced. Use Times 8-point
type, single-spaced.


2.7  References

  List and number all bibliographical references in 9-point Times,
single-spaced, at the end of your paper.  When referenced in the text,
enclose the citation number in square brackets, for example [1].
Where appropriate, include the name(s) of editors of referenced books.


2.8  Illustrations, graphs, and photographs

  All graphics should be centered. Your artwork must be in place in
the article (preferably printed as part of the text rather than pasted
up). If you are using photographs and are able to have halftones made
at a print shop, use a 100- or 110-line screen. If you must use plain
photos, they must be pasted onto your manuscript. Use rubber cement to
affix the images in place. Black and white, clear, glossy-finish
photos are preferable to color. Supply the best quality photographs
and illustrations possible. Penciled lines and very fine lines do not
reproduce well. Remember, the quality of the book cannot be better
than the originals provided. Do NOT use tape on your pages!


2.9  Color

  The use of color on interior pages (that is, pages other than the
cover) is prohibitively expensive.  We publish interior pages in color
only when it is specifically requested and budgeted for by the confer-
ence organizers. DO NOT SUBMIT COLOR IMAGES IN YOUR PAPERS UNLESS
SPECIFICALLY INSTRUCTED TO DO SO.


2.10  Symbols

  If your word processor or typewriter cannot produce Greek letters,
mathematical symbols, or other graphical elements, please use
pressure-sensitive (self-adhesive) rub-on symbols or letters
(available in most stationery stores, art stores, or graphics shops).


2.11  Conclusions

  Please direct any questions to the production editor in charge of
these proceedings at the DC-2001 conference organization: E-mail,
<dc2001-local@nii.ac.jp>.
  When preparing your manuscript, please see the following web site,
<http://www.nii.ac.jp/dc2001/>. If you use 'latex8.sty', please adjust
the margin settings, the same as this LaTEX source file of author
guidelines.


References

[1]I. M. Author. Some related article I wrote. Some Fine Journal,
   99(7):1-100, January 1999.
[2]A. N. Expert. A Book He Wrote. His Publisher, Erewhon, NC, 1999.
[3]P. Ienne. LaTeX author guidelines for 8.5 x 11-inch proceedings
   manuscripts. Manuscripts for making IEEE proceddings.

